##ANALYTICS OVER LARGE-SCALE MULTIDIMENSIONAL DATA:THE BIG DATA REVOLUTION!

The present paper describes some of the research issues and accomplishments in the field of analytics over big data. The paper also talks about the scope of analytics over multi dimensional data which discusses about the open problems and research directions in the field respectively. The paper mainly focuses on “Data Warehousing and OLAP research”, citing the fundamental objective as extracting useful data (organizing data and developing plots, diagrams and outlines) from largely piled up repositories. Big data analytics mainly uses “Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS)”, for extracting structured information from the huge archives. The strategies like “MAD (Magnetism, Agility and Depth)”, “MapReduce” are being used in doing so. Adding to it, Hadoop remains as a base for many other computational frameworks such as “Starfish”, “HadoopDB” in extracting the data. Adding to it, the present big data analytics used “Hive”, a Business Intelligence (BI) tool, developed with the aid of Hadoop, in playing analytics. The paper further discusses  about the open issues like heterogeneous data, differentiating like data, structuring the data, query streamlining issues and genuine patterns like “ Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)”, “The conventional RDBMS and NoSQL” combined together in setting up the structured data. The paper further explains urge of analytics on multi dimensional data such as aggregations, fact tables etc with the help of Hadoop(Cuzzocrea, Song, & Davis, 2011).


